README.md, before:

# IMAGINE Model Library

A model library usable for Galactic inference engines. 
The library is (mostly) written C++, but can be accessed via both C++ and Python.
Some (non-essential) elements are written in pure Python, which presently cannot be accessed in the C++ version of the library.
A full list of implemented models can be found [here](#list-of-models).

## <ins>Installation (Python)</ins>

### Requirements

**TODO: check fftw3 dependence, make it optional** 

Requires:

- [Python 3](https://www.python.org/) (>=3.6)
- [C++](https://www.python.org/) (>=11)

Python Libraries:

- [NumPy](https://numpy.org/) (>=1.22)

Optional (Developers):

- [pybind11](https://pybind11.readthedocs.io/en/stable/installing.html)

Note that pybind is included in the current repository, so in the current state you should not need to install it.
This may change in the future.  


#### Installation procedure

Easiest via

    pip3 install --user git+https://github.com/IMAGINE-Consortium/imagine-models.git

If you install the library in a virtual environment, remove the --user tag


If you want to specify a branch, you can do so by adding @branch-name to the above command.

Alternatively, (e.g. if you want to add your own model) you need to clone the repository via

    git clone -b branch_name --recursive https://github.com/IMAGINE-Consortium/imagine-models.git

The `--recursive` flag makes sure that also the pybind module is cloned (to the `/extern` folder).

The package can then be installed with

    pip3 install folder/where/setup/py/is/


## Installation (C++)

To install the C++ library (Debian only until now)
 
```
cd ./c_library  #important
mkdir build
cd build 
cmake ..
sudo make install 
```

Other systems have not been tested yet.

Note that we build within the `c_library` directory to avoid with the build of the Python package, which is 

## Examples

### Including the library

Example scripts demonstrating how to include both the python and C++ version are located in the ./demo folder. 
In the python case, we also include a Jupyter notebook. 
A couple of conventions shall be mentioned already here: 



### Adding new models **TBD** 

Defining your own models is easy in both Python and C++. 
For that you can start with the model templates provided in the `\templates` folder. 
Binding a C++ model to Python is a bit more involved. For the simplest case, a template exists as well. 


## List of Models

### Magnetic/Vector Fields

| MODEL NAME          | PYTHON      | C++         | reference    | notes               | original implementation |
| -----------         | ----------- | ----------- | -----------  | -----------         | -----------             | 
| **Regular models**  |             |             |              |                     |                         |
| Uniform             | &#x2714;    | &#x2714;    |              | used for unit tests |                         |
| Helix               | &#x2714;    | &#x2714;    |              |                     |                         |
| Axissymetric spiral | &#x2714;    | &#x2718;    | Pelgrims, V. |                     |  Pelgrims, V.           |
| Jaffe               | &#x2714;    | &#x2714;    | [Jaffe et al. (2010)](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2010MNRAS.401.1013J/abstract)        |             | [Hammurabi X](https://github.com/hammurabi-dev/hammurabiX)  |
| Sun2008               | &#x2714;    | &#x2714;    | [Sun et al. (2008)](https://www.aanda.org/articles/aa/abs/2008/02/aa8671-07/aa8671-07.html)        |             | [Hammurabi (old)](https://sourceforge.net/projects/hammurabicode/)  |
| Jansson Farrar      | &#x2714;    | &#x2714;    | [Jansson & Farrar (2012)](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2012ApJ...757...14J/abstract)        |             | [Hammurabi X](https://github.com/hammurabi-dev/hammurabiX)   |
| **Random models**   |             |             |              |                     |                         |
| Jansson Farrar      | &#x2714;    |&#x2714;     | [Jansson & Farrar (2012)](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2012ApJ...761L..11J/abstract)        | depends on the JF12 regular model   |[Hammurabi X](https://github.com/hammurabi-dev/hammurabiX)    |
| Ensslin Steininger  | &#x2714;    |&#x2714;     |              |                      | [Hammurabi X](https://github.com/hammurabi-dev/hammurabiX)             |


### Thermal electron/Scalar Fields

| MODEL NAME  | PYTHON      | C++         | reference   | notes       |  original implementation |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| **Regular models**        |             |             |             |             |             |
| YMW16       | &#x2714;    | &#x2714;    | [Yao et al. (2016)](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2017ApJ...835...29Y/abstract)     |             |       [Hammurabi X](https://github.com/hammurabi-dev/hammurabiX)         |
| **Random models** |             |             |             |             |             |
| GaussianScalar | &#x2714;|&#x2714; |             |      used for random number unit testing (TBD!)       |             |
| LogNormalScalar | &#x2714;|&#x2714; |             |             |             |

Commit message:

TT and HMR (old Hammurabi)

README.md, after:

# IMAGINE Model Library

A model library usable for Galactic inference engines. 
The library is (mostly) written C++, but can be accessed via both C++ and Python.
Some (non-essential) elements are written in pure Python, which presently cannot be accessed in the C++ version of the library.
A full list of implemented models can be found [here](#list-of-models).

## <ins>Installation (Python)</ins>

### Requirements

**TODO: check fftw3 dependence, make it optional** 

Requires:

- [Python 3](https://www.python.org/) (>=3.6)
- [C++](https://www.python.org/) (>=11)

Python Libraries:

- [NumPy](https://numpy.org/) (>=1.22)

Optional (Developers):

- [pybind11](https://pybind11.readthedocs.io/en/stable/installing.html)

Note that pybind is included in the current repository, so in the current state you should not need to install it.
This may change in the future.  


#### Installation procedure

Easiest via

    pip3 install --user git+https://github.com/IMAGINE-Consortium/imagine-models.git

If you install the library in a virtual environment, remove the --user tag


If you want to specify a branch, you can do so by adding @branch-name to the above command.

Alternatively, (e.g. if you want to add your own model) you need to clone the repository via

    git clone -b branch_name --recursive https://github.com/IMAGINE-Consortium/imagine-models.git

The `--recursive` flag makes sure that also the pybind module is cloned (to the `/extern` folder).

The package can then be installed with

    pip3 install folder/where/setup/py/is/


## Installation (C++)

To install the C++ library (Debian only until now)
 
```
cd ./c_library  #important
mkdir build
cd build 
cmake ..
sudo make install 
```

Other systems have not been tested yet.

Note that we build within the `c_library` directory to avoid with the build of the Python package, which is 

## Examples

### Including the library

Example scripts demonstrating how to include both the python and C++ version are located in the ./demo folder. 
In the python case, we also include a Jupyter notebook. 
A couple of conventions shall be mentioned already here: 



### Adding new models **TBD** 

Defining your own models is easy in both Python and C++. 
For that you can start with the model templates provided in the `\templates` folder. 
Binding a C++ model to Python is a bit more involved. For the simplest case, a template exists as well. 


## List of Models

### Magnetic/Vector Fields

| MODEL NAME          | PYTHON      | C++         | reference    | notes               | original implementation |
| -----------         | ----------- | ----------- | -----------  | -----------         | -----------             | 
| **Regular models**  |             |             |              |                     |                         |
| Uniform             | &#x2714;    | &#x2714;    |              | used for unit tests |                         |
| Helix               | &#x2714;    | &#x2714;    |              |                     |                         |
| Axissymetric spiral | &#x2714;    | &#x2718;    | Pelgrims, V. |                     |  Pelgrims, V.           |
| Jaffe               | &#x2714;    | &#x2714;    | [Jaffe et al. (2010)](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2010MNRAS.401.1013J/abstract)        |             | [Hammurabi X](https://github.com/hammurabi-dev/hammurabiX)  |
| Sun2008               | &#x2714;    | &#x2714;    | [Sun et al. (2008)](https://www.aanda.org/articles/aa/abs/2008/02/aa8671-07/aa8671-07.html)        |             | [Hammurabi (old)](https://sourceforge.net/projects/hammurabicode/)  |
| HMR              | &#x2714;    | &#x2714;    | [Harari et al. (1999)](https://arxiv.org/abs/astro-ph/9906309)        |             | [Hammurabi (old)](https://sourceforge.net/projects/hammurabicode/) and [Kachelrieß (2007)](https://arxiv.org/pdf/astro-ph/0510444.pdf )  |
| TT              | &#x2714;    | &#x2714;    | [Tinyakov and Tkachev (2001)](https://arxiv.org/abs/astro-ph/0102101)        |             | [Hammurabi (old)](https://sourceforge.net/projects/hammurabicode/) and [Kachelrieß (2007)](https://arxiv.org/pdf/astro-ph/0510444.pdf )  |
| Jansson Farrar      | &#x2714;    | &#x2714;    | [Jansson & Farrar (2012)](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2012ApJ...757...14J/abstract)        |             | [Hammurabi X](https://github.com/hammurabi-dev/hammurabiX)   |
| **Random models**   |             |             |              |                     |                         |
| Jansson Farrar      | &#x2714;    |&#x2714;     | [Jansson & Farrar (2012)](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2012ApJ...761L..11J/abstract)        | depends on the JF12 regular model   |[Hammurabi X](https://github.com/hammurabi-dev/hammurabiX)    |
| Ensslin Steininger  | &#x2714;    |&#x2714;     |              |                      | [Hammurabi X](https://github.com/hammurabi-dev/hammurabiX)             |

### Thermal electron/Scalar Fields

| MODEL NAME  | PYTHON      | C++         | reference   | notes       |  original implementation |
| ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| **Regular models**        |             |             |             |             |             |
| YMW16       | &#x2714;    | &#x2714;    | [Yao et al. (2016)](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2017ApJ...835...29Y/abstract)     |             |       [Hammurabi X](https://github.com/hammurabi-dev/hammurabiX)         |
| **Random models** |             |             |             |             |             |
| GaussianScalar | &#x2714;|&#x2714; |             |      used for random number unit testing (TBD!)       |             |
| LogNormalScalar | &#x2714;|&#x2714; |             |             |             |
